_attending/families.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Families@RSS
invisible: false
---

Our mission is to support members of the RSS community with children in their lives and enable their increased participation in RSS. RSS is committed to facilitating the participation in the conference by parents and families. We recognize that it can be tough to balance professional travel with kids, and we want to offer families options to make things work.

#### Caregivers and Children

For families who bring their children along with their own caregiver, Boston is
a wonderful destination for families and kids. Below is a list of suggested
activities that are easily accessible from Kendall Square, the T stop closest
to the conference venue. We are creating a signup for caregivers who wish to be
connected with each other to organize group activities. Caregivers and kids are
welcome at the RSS poster session and are welcome to partake in all the food.

We will also have a lab tour of MIT focused on kids, that will include "hands
on" demos of Baxter and the Aibo robot puppy, that you can sign up for at the
registration desk.

#### Parent Networking

We will have a lunch networking event for parents at RSS, whether or not you are
bringing your kids. Anyone who has an interest in kids and robotics is welcome
to attend.

#### Lactation Rooms and Changing Tables

MIT has [several lactation rooms][lactation rooms] available on campus. We are
also providing lactation rooms at Kresge (the conference venue) and the Stata
Center (the workshop venue). Please contact the conference organizers if you
have questions or need additional resources.

[lactation rooms]: http://hrweb.mit.edu/worklife/child-care-parenting/breastfeeding-support/lactation-rooms/campus

#### Lab Tour and Poster Sessions

On Thursday 7/13 at 5:30pm, we will have a kid-focused lab tour of the MIT Stata
Center immediately before the poster session. Details and sign
up [here][lab tour]! Families and caregivers are welcome to attend both poster
sessions and enjoy the food. We will have a kid's table with robotics-focused
activities for kids of different ages, including a very special sneak preview of
Barefoot Books' upcoming title, "My Friend Robot."

[lab tour]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc1oJ5wHblWGv-HumqsncBGWtizQHwraaXsAvupQY_wSJsBDA/viewform

#### Mailing Lists

We have created an opt-in mailing list for caregivers who are attending RSS with
children to coordinate on robotics activities. Sign up [here][discussion list]
for this discussion list. We also created an announcement list; sign
up [here][announcement list]. Use the discussion list to coordinate activities
with other RSS attendees who are traveling with their kids!

[discussion list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rss2017-families-discuss
[announcement list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rss2017-families-announce

#### Organizers

Stefanie Tellex, *Brown University* <br/>
Cynthia Matuszek, *University of Maryland, Baltimore County* <br/>
Maya Cakmak, *University of Washington* <br/>
Hadas Kress-Gazit, *Cornell University* <br/>
Matt Walter, *Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago*

#### Activities for caregivers and kids

Boston is a great place to explore with young children. Below are some of our
favorite activities that are accessible from the Red Line (the closest T-stop to
the conference).

- [Frog Pond][frog pond]. Boston Common is accessible from the Red Line. Get on
  the Kendall Square T-stop going outbound and get off at Park Street. The Frog
  Pond is a short walk from the T stop on Boston common. It's a giant shallow
  pond that kids can swim in. There is also a playground and splash pad next to
  it, and a carousel. Bring a bathing suit!
- [The Greenway][the greenway]. The Greenway is a park that was created as a
  result of the Big Dig, which buried the I-93 expressway. It is a linear park
  that goes through downtown Boston. There are lots of fountains for water play,
  including a very large one near the New England Aquarium. You can get on it by
  getting off the Red Line at Downtown Crossing and then walking. Our favorite
  activity is to walk along the Greenway in our bathing suits, fountain-hopping
  all the way. There is also a carousel with animals drawn from Massachusetts
  native wildlife. (Ride on a lobster or a redtail hawk!) You can stop
  at [Christopher Columbus Park][christopher columbus park] for another splash
  pad and a playground, as well as great views of Boston Harbor.
- [Museum of Science][museum of science]. The Museum of Science is a
  world-renowned science museum. Right now it has a wonderful exhibit called
  "[Popnology][popnology]" which has a great lineup of fictional and real
  robots, including robot arms that you can teleoperate to pick up blocks. You
  can reach it by taking the shuttle to the Galleria Mall from the Kendall
  Square T-stop. The Museum is a short walk from the Galleria.  Duck Tours also
  pick up here.
- [Children's Museum][childrens museum]. The Children's Museum is located a
  short walk from South Station on the Red Line. Among many other things, they
  have exhibits featuring Boston roboticists such as the RoboBee project.
- [Spectacle Island][spectacle island]. The Boston Harbor Islands are accessible
  by ferry from a terminal near the New England Aquarium. You can reach the
  terminal by getting off at Downtown Crossing or South Station. The ferry ride
  to Spectacle Island takes about 30 minutes and is a great and reasonably
  priced way to get out on the water. Spectacle Island is our favorite, because
  it has bathrooms and a beach with swimming. If you are motivated you can hike
  to the top of one of the drumlins for the best kite-flying in Boston. The gift
  shop on the island sells soft kites that work great. The island is also a
  great place for airplane spotting, and the top of the drumlin has a great view
  of Logan Airport and Boston Harbor.  Plan on a full day for this one.
- [New England Aquarium][new england aquarium]. The Aquarium is a popular
  attraction right on the harbor, featuring penguins, fur seals, and the Giant
  Ocean Tank with Myrtle the Green Sea Turtle. You can reach it by walking from
  Downtown Crossing or South Station.
- [MIT Museum][mit museum]. This is a short walk from the conference venue up
  Massachusetts Avenue. The activities are mainly geared toward older kids; the
  memorabilia of hacks and the hologram exhibits are very popular.
- [Savin Hill Park][savin hill park]. This urban park features a playground and
  a swimming beach just five minutes from the Red Line Savin Hill stop. You can
  reach it from Kendall Square but note that you have to get on the Ashmont line
  (not Braintree). Wait for an "Ashmont train."

If you are looking for activities near the conference venue, Kresge Oval in
front of the main area is a grassy space that is good for running around and
playing. At the Stata Center, there is a green field just outside called
Northcourt. It has a red statue that is fun to climb on. It's fun to take kids
down the Infinite Corridor on MIT's main campus, and also to walk along the
Memorial drive path and look at the river.

[frog pond]: https://bostonfrogpond.com/
[the greenway]: http://www.rosekennedygreenway.org/
[christopher columbus park]: http://www.bostoncentral.com/activities/christopher-columbus-waterfront-park-boston/p311.php
[museum of science]: https://www.mos.org/
[popnology]: https://www.mos.org/popnology/
[childrens museum]: http://www.bostonchildrensmuseum.org/
[spectacle island]: http://www.bostonharborislands.org/spectacle-island
[new england aquarium]: http://www.neaq.org/
[mit museum]: https://mitmuseum.mit.edu/
[savin hill park]: https://www.yelp.com/biz/savin-hill-park-dorchester

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

Commit message:

[families] Add lactation room for main conference.

_attending/families.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Families@RSS
invisible: false
---

Our mission is to support members of the RSS community with children in their lives and enable their increased participation in RSS. RSS is committed to facilitating the participation in the conference by parents and families. We recognize that it can be tough to balance professional travel with kids, and we want to offer families options to make things work.

#### Caregivers and Children

For families who bring their children along with their own caregiver, Boston is
a wonderful destination for families and kids. Below is a list of suggested
activities that are easily accessible from Kendall Square, the T stop closest
to the conference venue. We are creating a signup for caregivers who wish to be
connected with each other to organize group activities. Caregivers and kids are
welcome at the RSS poster session and are welcome to partake in all the food.

We will also have a lab tour of MIT focused on kids, that will include "hands
on" demos of Baxter and the Aibo robot puppy, that you can sign up for at the
registration desk.

#### Parent Networking

We will have a lunch networking event for parents at RSS, whether or not you are
bringing your kids. Anyone who has an interest in kids and robotics is welcome
to attend.

#### Lactation Rooms and Changing Tables

MIT has [several lactation rooms][lactation rooms] available on campus. We are
also providing lactation rooms at Kresge (the conference venue) and the Stata
Center (the workshop venue).

The lactation room for the main conference will be in the Green Room, located
in the basement of Kresge. This room has a private bathroom, and will be
equipped with a small fridge. You can pick up the key at the registration desk.

Please contact the conference organizers if you have questions or need
additional resources.

[lactation rooms]: http://hrweb.mit.edu/worklife/child-care-parenting/breastfeeding-support/lactation-rooms/campus

#### Lab Tour and Poster Sessions

On Thursday 7/13 at 5:30pm, we will have a kid-focused lab tour of the MIT Stata
Center immediately before the poster session. Details and sign
up [here][lab tour]! Families and caregivers are welcome to attend both poster
sessions and enjoy the food. We will have a kid's table with robotics-focused
activities for kids of different ages, including a very special sneak preview of
Barefoot Books' upcoming title, "My Friend Robot."

[lab tour]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc1oJ5wHblWGv-HumqsncBGWtizQHwraaXsAvupQY_wSJsBDA/viewform

#### Mailing Lists

We have created an opt-in mailing list for caregivers who are attending RSS with
children to coordinate on robotics activities. Sign up [here][discussion list]
for this discussion list. We also created an announcement list; sign
up [here][announcement list]. Use the discussion list to coordinate activities
with other RSS attendees who are traveling with their kids!

[discussion list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rss2017-families-discuss
[announcement list]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rss2017-families-announce

#### Organizers

Stefanie Tellex, *Brown University* <br/>
Cynthia Matuszek, *University of Maryland, Baltimore County* <br/>
Maya Cakmak, *University of Washington* <br/>
Hadas Kress-Gazit, *Cornell University* <br/>
Matt Walter, *Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago*

#### Activities for caregivers and kids

Boston is a great place to explore with young children. Below are some of our
favorite activities that are accessible from the Red Line (the closest T-stop to
the conference).

- [Frog Pond][frog pond]. Boston Common is accessible from the Red Line. Get on
  the Kendall Square T-stop going outbound and get off at Park Street. The Frog
  Pond is a short walk from the T stop on Boston common. It's a giant shallow
  pond that kids can swim in. There is also a playground and splash pad next to
  it, and a carousel. Bring a bathing suit!
- [The Greenway][the greenway]. The Greenway is a park that was created as a
  result of the Big Dig, which buried the I-93 expressway. It is a linear park
  that goes through downtown Boston. There are lots of fountains for water play,
  including a very large one near the New England Aquarium. You can get on it by
  getting off the Red Line at Downtown Crossing and then walking. Our favorite
  activity is to walk along the Greenway in our bathing suits, fountain-hopping
  all the way. There is also a carousel with animals drawn from Massachusetts
  native wildlife. (Ride on a lobster or a redtail hawk!) You can stop
  at [Christopher Columbus Park][christopher columbus park] for another splash
  pad and a playground, as well as great views of Boston Harbor.
- [Museum of Science][museum of science]. The Museum of Science is a
  world-renowned science museum. Right now it has a wonderful exhibit called
  "[Popnology][popnology]" which has a great lineup of fictional and real
  robots, including robot arms that you can teleoperate to pick up blocks. You
  can reach it by taking the shuttle to the Galleria Mall from the Kendall
  Square T-stop. The Museum is a short walk from the Galleria.  Duck Tours also
  pick up here.
- [Children's Museum][childrens museum]. The Children's Museum is located a
  short walk from South Station on the Red Line. Among many other things, they
  have exhibits featuring Boston roboticists such as the RoboBee project.
- [Spectacle Island][spectacle island]. The Boston Harbor Islands are accessible
  by ferry from a terminal near the New England Aquarium. You can reach the
  terminal by getting off at Downtown Crossing or South Station. The ferry ride
  to Spectacle Island takes about 30 minutes and is a great and reasonably
  priced way to get out on the water. Spectacle Island is our favorite, because
  it has bathrooms and a beach with swimming. If you are motivated you can hike
  to the top of one of the drumlins for the best kite-flying in Boston. The gift
  shop on the island sells soft kites that work great. The island is also a
  great place for airplane spotting, and the top of the drumlin has a great view
  of Logan Airport and Boston Harbor.  Plan on a full day for this one.
- [New England Aquarium][new england aquarium]. The Aquarium is a popular
  attraction right on the harbor, featuring penguins, fur seals, and the Giant
  Ocean Tank with Myrtle the Green Sea Turtle. You can reach it by walking from
  Downtown Crossing or South Station.
- [MIT Museum][mit museum]. This is a short walk from the conference venue up
  Massachusetts Avenue. The activities are mainly geared toward older kids; the
  memorabilia of hacks and the hologram exhibits are very popular.
- [Savin Hill Park][savin hill park]. This urban park features a playground and
  a swimming beach just five minutes from the Red Line Savin Hill stop. You can
  reach it from Kendall Square but note that you have to get on the Ashmont line
  (not Braintree). Wait for an "Ashmont train."

If you are looking for activities near the conference venue, Kresge Oval in
front of the main area is a grassy space that is good for running around and
playing. At the Stata Center, there is a green field just outside called
Northcourt. It has a red statue that is fun to climb on. It's fun to take kids
down the Infinite Corridor on MIT's main campus, and also to walk along the
Memorial drive path and look at the river.

[frog pond]: https://bostonfrogpond.com/
[the greenway]: http://www.rosekennedygreenway.org/
[christopher columbus park]: http://www.bostoncentral.com/activities/christopher-columbus-waterfront-park-boston/p311.php
[museum of science]: https://www.mos.org/
[popnology]: https://www.mos.org/popnology/
[childrens museum]: http://www.bostonchildrensmuseum.org/
[spectacle island]: http://www.bostonharborislands.org/spectacle-island
[new england aquarium]: http://www.neaq.org/
[mit museum]: https://mitmuseum.mit.edu/
[savin hill park]: https://www.yelp.com/biz/savin-hill-park-dorchester

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
