<p>
For decades, robots have been designed particularly for children, such as robot
companions and therapeutic robots for children with ASD. This research has
gained attention in various communities, including robotics, human-machine
interaction, and psychology. Two of the most important aspects in designing
these robots are perception and interaction dynamics. Precise perception allows
the robots to gather informative behavioral and affective signals from
children, and thus, the robots can provide effective prompts and feedback
accordingly. Interaction dynamics between the robots and the children needs to
be optimized towards a goal to help enhance the quality of these children's
lives. The interaction dynamics also elicits specific interaction cues that
need to be perceived carefully by the robots. We believe that a tight coupling
between perception and interaction dynamics is vital for successful assistance.
</p>

<p>
While holding great promises, a variety of challenges need to be addressed
before robots can reach their full potential. Topics to be discussed during the
workshop include, but are not limited to:
<ul>
<li>Perception cues and methodologies in child-robot interaction (CRI).</li>
<li>Defining interaction models in CRI.</li>
<li>Personalization, adaptation, and automation of CRI</li>
<li>Social cognition and learning in CRI</li>
</ul>
</p>

<p>
This workshop aims to bring together researchers from the assistive robotics,
human-robot interaction, human sensing, human factors, and psychology
communities. By combining these communities' strengths and sharing current
progress, we hope to discuss ideas and solutions that tackle the current
difficulties, make progress towards robotic systems that have a positive impact
on children, and discuss future trends and open problems. 
</p>

