
<p>
Space exploration represents a complex and multifaceted problem domain for
autonomous systems. Harsh and distant environments, long time delays, high
costs, and other challenges highlight the value of autonomy, but make it
difficult to achieve in practice. The cost of failure is high, as robots will
often be required to perform mission-/safety-critical operations, sometimes in
novel environments for which little a priori knowledge or human oversight is
available. At the same time, such autonomy must remain sufficiently
trustworthy, accessible, and comprehensible to human stakeholders (mission
scientists, engineers, astronauts, etc.) to add value in achieving mission
objectives. On Earth, recent developments in perception, manipulation, and
learning are rapidly improving the capabilities of terrestrial robotic systems
for a wide range of applications. However, integration into the space domain is
occurring at a more gradual pace, despite this context being the absolute test
of autonomy.  This workshop aims to help bridge the gap between advances in
terrestrial systems and space applications, identifying a set of “grand
challenges and opportunities” for space robotics. Top researchers, engineers,
scientists, and practitioners from the space exploration, space robotics, and
autonomous robotics communities will be brought together for the first time at
RSS to explore: (1) how advancements in terrestrial robotics might be applied
to space and (2) how the challenges of operating in space may inspire and drive
further research and enhancement of these techniques.
</p>

