<p>
Complex robot behavior requires not only
paths to navigate or reach objects, but also decisions about
which objects to reach, in what order, and what style
of action to perform. Such decisions combine the need
for continuous, collision-free motion planning with the
discrete actions of task planning. Efficient algorithms exist
to solve these parts in isolation; however, integrating task
and motion planning presents algorithmic challenges in
generality, scalability, completeness. Task-Motion Planning
(TMP) is an integrated approach to this challenge which
has developed in the traditional robotics community. With
this workshop, we hope to strengthen connections to the
AI and formal methods communities.
</p>
<p>
Challenges in TMP arise from the interaction of task
and motion layers. Task actions affect motion planning
feasibility, and motion plan feasibility dictates the ability to
perform task actions. Current work on TMP has achieved
good performance by focusing on specific types of actions
or solving expected-case scenarios, and ongoing advances
are improving completeness, generality, and optimality.
</p>
<p>
This workshop will highlight recent applications and
explore new methods for combining task and motion
planning. We include speakers from beyond the typical
robotics community, to identify connections with work
in AI and cyber-physical systems. Furthermore, we will
present and discuss a benchmark set in development
since the 2016 Workshop on Task and Motion Planning.
From this workshop, we expect participating researchers
to identify and address important challenges, techniques,
and benchmarks necessary for combining task and motion
planning.
</p>

