index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

<h1 class="page-title">{{ site.title }}<br>
July 12-16, 2017</h1>

The {{site.title}} has a long history of bringing together researchers in all
areas of robotics from around the world for an engaging and focussed week of
single-track presentations, workshops, poster sessions, tutorials, and fun!
This year, once again, we solicit your best work.


## Conference Location

The conference will be held at the Kresge Auditorium at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

<table class="table">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th colspan="3">Timeline</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td>January 30, 2017</td>
        <td><a href="https://time.is/Anywhere_on_Earth" class="grayout">Anywhere on Earth</a></td>
        <td>Paper Submission Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td>February 13, 2017</td>
        <td><a href="https://time.is/Anywhere_on_Earth" class="grayout">Anywhere on Earth</a></td>
        <td>Workshop Submission Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
      <td colspan="2"><s>March 13, 2017</s><br>March 15, 2017</td>
        <td>Workshop Acceptance Notification</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">April 28, 2017</td>
        <td>Paper Acceptance Notification</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">May 30, 2017</td>
        <td>Camera-ready Submission Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">May 31, 2017</td>
        <td>Early Registration Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">July 5, 2017</td>
        <td>Registration Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">July 12-14, 2017</td>
        <td>Main Conference</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td>July 14, 2017</td>
        <td>Evening</td>
        <td>Banquet</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">July 15-16, 2017</td>
        <td>Workshops</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>

  The website of the 2016 RSS conference can be found here: [RSS 2016](http://rss2016.engin.umich.edu/).

{% include sponsors.html %}

Commit message:

Add link to post-RSS survey.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

<h1 class="page-title">{{ site.title }}<br>
July 12-16, 2017</h1>

The {{site.title}} has a long history of bringing together researchers in all
areas of robotics from around the world for an engaging and focussed week of
single-track presentations, workshops, poster sessions, tutorials, and fun!
This year, once again, we solicit your best work.

Thank you for attending RSS 2017! Please fill out the **[post-RSS
survey](https://cornell.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_0i8pWkBCWGu57al)**.

## Conference Location

The conference will be held at the Kresge Auditorium at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

<table class="table">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th colspan="3">Timeline</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td>January 30, 2017</td>
        <td><a href="https://time.is/Anywhere_on_Earth" class="grayout">Anywhere on Earth</a></td>
        <td>Paper Submission Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td>February 13, 2017</td>
        <td><a href="https://time.is/Anywhere_on_Earth" class="grayout">Anywhere on Earth</a></td>
        <td>Workshop Submission Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
      <td colspan="2"><s>March 13, 2017</s><br>March 15, 2017</td>
        <td>Workshop Acceptance Notification</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">April 28, 2017</td>
        <td>Paper Acceptance Notification</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">May 30, 2017</td>
        <td>Camera-ready Submission Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">May 31, 2017</td>
        <td>Early Registration Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">July 5, 2017</td>
        <td>Registration Deadline</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">July 12-14, 2017</td>
        <td>Main Conference</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td>July 14, 2017</td>
        <td>Evening</td>
        <td>Banquet</td>
      </tr>
      <tr class="grayout">
        <td colspan="2">July 15-16, 2017</td>
        <td>Workshops</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>

  The website of the 2016 RSS conference can be found here: [RSS 2016](http://rss2016.engin.umich.edu/).

{% include sponsors.html %}
