---
layout: page
title: Keynote Speakers
description: Invited talk abstracts and speaker bios.
priority: 8
---

<div class="row" id="deluca">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <br/>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-4">
    <center>
      <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/deluca.jpg" width="150" class="img-responsive">
      <br/>
      <br/>
      <b>Alessandro De Luca</b>
      <br/>
      <i>Sapienza Università di Roma</i>
      <!--<br/>
      Tues. June 26, 11:00-->
      <br/><br/>
    </center>
  </div>
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8 text-left">
  <b>Title:</b> Control of soft joint robots for safe physical HRI <br><br>

<b>Abstract:</b> In the early days, joint flexibility in industrial
robots equipped with compliant transmissions was seen mainly as a
negative effect to be milden as much as possible. Stiffening control
laws were used to remove static deflections and suppress vibrations
during execution of dynamic trajectories. This control approach led
eventually to complete cancellation of the nonlinear fourth-order
dynamics based on feedback linearization. The next step was the
development of torque-controlled robots, in which the presence of
joint elasticity was masked by the use of joint torque sensors and
low-level feedback loops for the approximate recovery of a rigid
dynamics. This allowed a seamless transfer of control results from the
rigid case, e.g., impedance control to handle safe human-robot
interaction and contacts with the environment. Indeed, if joint
compliance is included on purpose, like in SEA- and VSA-based robots,
it seems quite naïve to pursue its removal by feedback. The control
challenge is to take advantage of the natural dynamics to get better
performance with reduced effort. To this end, I will present a
framework based on the principle of feedback equivalence, which was
recently applied to a number of control tasks in compliant robots. The
goal is to introduce the least possible modification of the original
fourth-order dynamics, while matching a desired target behavior via
nonlinear state feedback. The concept will be illustrated through a
few simple examples: exact cancellation of gravity on robot links,
injection of viscous damping in the link dynamics, and imposition of a
generalized impedance model for interaction control. <br><br>

<b>Biography:</b> Alessandro De Luca is Professor of Robotics and
Automation and Director of the Master in Control Engineering at DIAG,
Sapienza University of Rome. He has been the first Editor-in-Chief of
the IEEE Transactions on Robotics (2004-08), RAS Vice-President for
Publication Activities in 2012-13, General Chair of ICRA 2007, and
Program Chair of ICRA 2016. He received three conference awards (Best
paper at ICRA 1998 and BioRob 2012, Best application paper at IROS
2008), the Helmholtz Humboldt Research Award in 2005, the IEEE-RAS
Distinguished Service Award in 2009, and the IEEE George Saridis
Leadership Award in Robotics and Automation in 2019. He is an IEEE
Fellow, class of 2007. His research interests cover modeling, motion
planning, and control of robotic systems (flexible manipulators,
kinematically redundant arms, underactuated robots, wheeled mobile
robots), as well as physical human-robot interaction. He was the
scientific coordinator of the FP7 project SAPHARI – Safe and
Autonomous Physical Human-Aware Robot Interaction (2011-15). More info
at <a href="http://www.diag.uniroma1.it/deluca">www.diag.uniroma1.it/deluca</a>.
</div>
</div>

<br/>
<hr>

<div class="row" id="murphy">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <br/>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-4">
    <center>
      <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/murphy.jpg" width="150" class="img-responsive">
      <br/>
      <br/>
      <b>Robin Murphy</b>
      <br/>
      <i>Texas A&M University, Center for Robot-Assisted Search and Rescue</i>
      <!--<br/>
      Tues. June 26, 11:00-->
      <br/><br/>
    </center>
  </div>
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8 text-left">
  <b>Title:</b> Robots for Unstructured and Extreme Environments <br><br>

<b>Abstract:</b> Since 2001, land, aerial, and marine robots have
assisted responders in saving lives, reducing suffering, and
accelerating economic recovery. However, disasters present major
design challenges for robots as the environment is usually
unstructured, and the robots, as well as the operators, are working
under extreme conditions. The design process for robots intended for
these applications is made even more difficult by the lack of data on
unstructured, extreme environments and the absence of formal methods
to characterize the work envelope or predict system performance. This
talk will summarize our work over the past 20 years which includes
deployments to 28 events in five countries, including the 9/11 World
Trade Center, the Japan tsunami, and Hurricane Harvey. The work has
led to a set of metrics for characterizing unstructured environments
which can be used for robot design or to select a robot for a
particular mission at a disaster. The analysis also describes how
robots fail in the field and offers a comprehensive taxonomy of
navigational and mission risks. Human-robot interaction is an
overlooked influence on successful robot performance and our work has
also explored the difference between operating robots in normal and
emergency conditions. Extensive video illustrating the lessons learned
to date will be shown. <br><br>

<b>Biography:</b> Dr. Robin R. Murphy is the Raytheon Professor of
Computer Science and Engineering at Texas A&amp;M University, a
founding director of the Center for Robot-Assisted Search and Rescue,
and an IEEE fellow. She helped found the fields of disaster robotics
and human-robot interaction, concentrating on developing
human-centered AI for ground, air, and marine robots. Her work is
captured in over 150 scientific publications including the
award-winning book Disaster Robotics and a TED talk as well as a
textbook Introduction to AI Robotics (second edition 2019). Murphy has
deployed robots to over 28 disasters in five countries including the
9/11 World Trade Center, Hurricane Katrina, 2 mine disasters,
Fukushima, the Syrian boat refugee crisis, Hurricane Harvey, and the
Kilauea volcanic eruption. Murphy’s contributions to disaster robotics
have been recognized with the ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for
Humanitarian Contributions, the AUVSI Foundation’s Al Aube Award, and
the Motohiro Kisoi Award for Rescue Engineering Education.

</div>
</div>

<br/>
<hr>

<div class="row" id="riedmiller">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <br/>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-4">
    <center>
      <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/riedmiller.png" width="150" class="img-responsive">
      <br/>
      <br/>
      <b>Martin Riedmiller</b>
      <br/>
      <i>DeepMind</i>
      <!--<br/>
      Tues. June 26, 11:00-->
      <br/><br/>
    </center>
  </div>
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8 text-left">
  <b>Title:</b> Robots that learn from scratch<br><br>

<b>Abstract:</b> Being able to autonomously learn ‘from scratch’ -
i.e. with a minimum amount of prior knowledge - is a key ability of
intelligent systems. This credo is the driving motivation behind our
research on reinforcement learning methods for the control of
dynamical systems. While we have seen tremendous progress in the area
of deep reinforcement learning in the last couple of years, its direct
application to real systems still remains a challenge. Key
requirements for agents mastering the real world are data-efficiency
and reliability of learning, since data-collection in real
environments, e.g. on real robots, is time intensive and often
expensive.


I will highlight two main areas of progress that we consider crucial
for progress towards this goal - improved off-policy learning methods
from large data sets and better exploration. I will give examples of
simulated and real robots that, by following these principles, can
learn increasingly complex tasks from scratch.<br><br>

<b>Biography:</b> Martin Riedmiller is a research scientist and
team-lead at DeepMind, London. Before joining DeepMind fulltime in
spring 2015, he held several professor positions in machine learning
and neuro-informatics from 2002 to 2015 at Dortmund, Osnabrück and
Freiburg University.

From 1998 to 2009 he lead the robot soccer team ‘Brainstormers’ that
participated in the internationally renowned RoboCup competitions. As
an early proof of the power of neural reinforcement learning
techniques, the Brainstormers won the world championships for five
times in both simulation and real robot leagues.

He has contributed over 20 years in the fields of reinforcement
  learning, neural networks and learning control systems. He is author
  and co-author of some early and ground-lying work on efficient and
  robust supervised learning and reinforcement learning algorithms,
  including work on one of the first deep reinforcement learning
  systems.
</div>
</div>

<br/>
<hr>

<div class="row" id="suzumori">
  <br/>
  <br/>
  <br/>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-4">
    <center>
      <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/suzumori.png" width="150" class="img-responsive">
      <br/>
      <br/>
      <b>Koichi Suzumori</b>
      <br/>
      <i>Tokyo Institute of Technology</i>
      <!--<br/>
      Tues. June 26, 11:00-->
      <br/><br/>
    </center>
  </div>
  <div class="col-xs-12 col-md-8 text-left">
  <b>Title:</b> Soft Robotics as E-kagen Science<br><br>

<b>Abstract:</b> In this presentation, I will discuss three topics on
soft robotics.
<ol>
<li> Since 1986, I have been developing various
types of soft actuators; they include pneumatic rubber actuators, thin
artificial muscles, functional rubber surfaces. I will be discussing
them and their applications to medical robots, soft power support
suits, musculo-skeletal robots, and Giacometti robots. </li>

<li> Last year, the MEXT KAKENHI project on soft robots was initiated
in Japan with a budget of 1.2 billion yen and a research period of
five years. Approximately 20 research groups participate in this
project that I will now introduce.</li>

<li> I think soft robotics is a value changer in robotics. Soft robots
are considered “bad robots” from the viewpoints of traditional
robotics that seek power and accuracy. However, soft robots realize
safety, adaptability, and compliance easily, which are important
properties in several new robot applications. I will discuss my
opinions on the significance of soft robotics with the help of a
Japanese word “E-kagen”, which has two contrasting meanings. On the
positive side, it could mean suitable, adaptable, and flexible; on the
negative side, loose, imprecise, and arbitrary. It is very interesting
that these two opposite meanings correspond to the good and poor
aspects of soft robots.</li>
</ol>

<b>Biography:</b> Koichi Suzumori received his Ph.D. degree in
mechanical engineering from Yokohama National University in 1990. He
worked for Toshiba R&D Center from 1984 to 2001, and for Micromachine
Center, Tokyo, from 1999 to 2001. He was then a Professor at Okayama
University from 2001 to 2014. Since 2014, he has been a Professor at
Tokyo Institute of Technology. He has developed various types of new
actuators and applied them to new robots including soft robots, micro
robots, and tough robots. He established a start-up venture company,
s-muscle Co., Ltd., in 2016, which puts his soft thin artificial
muscles into practical uses.